Systrace 1.6 - 2008-06-12
-------------------------

Systrace enforces system call policies for applications by
constraining the application's access to the system.  Policy is
generated interactively. Operations not covered by the policy raise an
alarm, allowing an user to refine the currently configured policy.

For complicated applications, it is difficult to know the correct
policy before running them.  Initially, Systrace notifies the user
about all system calls that an application tries to execute.  The user
configures a policy for the specific system call that caused the
warning.  After a few minutes, a policy is generated that allows the
application to run without any warnings.  However, events that are not
covered still generate a warning.  Normally, that is an indication of
a security problem.

Alternatively, policies can be learned automatically.  In many
instances, the automatically learned policies can be used for
sandboxing immediately.  Sometimes, minimal manual post-processing is
necessary.

With Systrace, untrusted binary applications can be sandboxed.  Their
access to the system can be restricted almost arbitrarily.  Sandboxing
applications that are available only as binaries make sense, as it is
not possible to directly analyze what they are designed to do.
However, constraining the system calls that large open-source
applications are allowed to execute is useful too, as it is very
difficult to determine their correctness.

For example, by constraining a daemon's access to the system, Systrace
can be used to protect operating system services from software bugs
such as buffer overflows.  Its privilege elevation feature can be used
to obviate the need to run large, untrusted programs as root when only
one or two system calls require root privilege.

Features
--------

  - Confines untrusted binary applications.
  - Interactive Policy Generation with Graphical User Interface.
  - Supports different emulations: GNU/Linux, BSDI, etc..
  - System Call Argument Rewriting.
  - Non-interactive Policy Enforcement.
  - Remote Monitoring and Intrusion Detection.
  - Privilege Elevation: Add-on capabilities.


Installing Systrace
-------------------

To install on Linux, you must first install libevent.   You can get the
libevent tarball at 
   
   http://monkey.org/~provos/libevent/

When you run ./configure, use --prefix=/usr.   This will set up libevent to
be installed in a location where systrace can find it.

After building libevent, unpack the Systrace tarball.   You should be able to
do './configure && make' to build Systrace and 'make install' to install
it on your system.


Resolving issues:

If you installed libevent in somewhere other than /usr (such as the default
/usr/local) and have problems, you will need to run ./configure for Systrace 
as follows: 

   ./configure --with-libevent=/usr/local/

If you build now, you will notice that Systrace builds, but the regression 
tests fail.   This is because Systrace cannot find libevent.   This can be
fixed by adding the path to libevent to your LD_LIBRARY_PATH variable.   
For example:

   export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH




General Notes
-----------------

Systrace relies on system call interposition to create a sandbox for
untrusted applications.  It is available by default in the base
installs of OpenBSD or NetBSD.  Kernel patches are available for
Linux.

This release includes a ptrace-based backend for Linux.  This means
that you can run Systrace on Linux without any kernel changes. Most of
Systrace's basic features are supported by the ptrace backend.
However, sandboxed applications run much slower and features like
privilege elevation are not supported.

To make use of Systrace's more advanced features, you can download
Marius Eriksen's Linux kernel patches from

  http://www.citi.umich.edu/u/provos/systrace/linux.html

Niels Provos



Postscript
----------

Ptrace is a very poor tool to implement a sandbox.  The ptrace-based
backend requires about three times as much code as the other backends
and does not provide the same functionality. It requires complicated
emulation of waitpid behavior.  I did not even start implementing
emulating threading or signal masking yet.  I hope that we will be
able to convince the Linux kernel maintainers that adding a clean
interface for system call interposition to the kernel is a security
benefit that should not be ignored.

Systrace is not a MAC system and does not want to be either.
